everybody welcome back to 100 days of
SEO this is our very first workshop
Wednesday so I'm extremely extremely
excited if you are new here my name is
Brendan huffard in the founder of SEO
for the rest of us and also 100 days of
SEO
I'm also the SEO Directorate click
studios an amazing agency here in
Chicago I'm also a former teacher I'm
leveraging everything I know about
teaching to just bring you the best SEO
content possible help you understand and
demystify SEO today we are going to do a
workshop Wednesday breakdown of
mastermind Jam dot-com I'm gonna leave
it kind of free-flowing here you're
gonna see me jump back and forth between
other tabs and the slide deck the goal
is not to be a lecture or presentation
but I want you to see how I think about
all this and if I were to really
workshop mastermind Jam which I love
this logo as well it's like an elephant
but it's also the MMJ it's cool I don't
know but the if I would really workshop
this if mastermind Jam was a client of
mine or if I worked for or with
mastermind Jam what would I do
where would I start obviously this is
brought to you by HR F's they're a
sponsor of 100 days of SEO they're also
the tool that I use so I'll be using HR
F's throughout all of this well I do
think you can do a lot of these things
without href which I'll actually show
you how to do we will be using it quite
a bit so you'll have those insights as
well I think if you are a new SAS
company so a little bit of background on
mass run Jim here in a second but if
you're a SAS company like mastermind Jam
I would highly recommend checking out
href there free trial or their trial is
seven dollars for seven days you can get
a lot out of that and then you I
guarantee you'll want to sign up so and
I don't just say that again because the
response are but simply because it's
what I use in my client working in my
own work so the first thing I want to do
is take a look at mastermind Jim they
are an online mastermind group platform
they have a really incredible back-end
they've really incredible kind of but
when I say back-end I mean ways for
mastermind groups to interact beyond
just Skype or whatever else or even in
person
ways to take notes every I don't know
it's really cool I won't belabor it but
what they're doing is really interesting
the founder Ken Wallace is just fully
transparent a good friend of mine so I'm
excited to really dive in on this I'll
probably not tell him anything he
doesn't know but I think it'll be pretty
cool so let's take a look at mastermind
Jam so right now if I go to the homepage
I can see they have a blog they haven't
about I can kind of apply when it
reopens and things like that I have some
guides here at the bottom great
scroll back up blog about just kind of
looking at their about page and
obviously this is a site that I've been
on before does a lot of things right
which is fantastic there's Ken and just
kind of looking back to the hit like a
lot of things are right with this
website but the first thing I want to do
is kind of look at their SEO so I hop
over here into a Trav's looking at all
right cool they rank for 75 keywords
referring domains the first thing I like
to do is check out just where they're at
like what's what's been going on kind of
looking at here's some ups and downs but
what I'm really concerned about is the
page one keyword so really not a lot of
rankings and they fluctuate quite a bit
so two years ago there was fifteen total
page one keywords and then it was none
in the top three and kind of back and
forth really doesn't seem to be anything
consistent it's up and down that shows
me that there hasn't been a really
dedicated effort in terms of SEO which
is totally fine
I can see competitors here mastermind
hunt mastermind saw org accountability
success Alliance that's one that we'll
be looking at kick-ass masterminds is
another one that we'll be looking at
cool so this kind of makes sense I also
love the HR f-stop pages because here's
what I I can see we focus a lot in SEO
or people like to focus a lot on
keywords and I think that's a mistake we
want to focus on topics so I can see
some blog articles here really good blog
articles are gonna rank for thousands of
keywords so I don't just want to look at
this top keyword I also want to look at
all of these keywords in here and it
looks like right now Google things that
like this is his questions to screen
mastermind group members Google thinks
this is a page about Facebook group
screening questions in examples which
isn't really the focus of the article
and then questions when joining the
mastermind group you can see like there
we're on page 10 for these things so
it's pretty much irrelevant the home
page though does rank for some
significant things it looks like it kind
of dances on the first and second page
for mastermind group which is pretty
significant than the first page for
business mastermind than the first
five-eighth page for mastermind groups
near me which is weird because it's an
online platform but business mastermind
group they do they do fairly well and I
think that that does bring some organic
traffic and does convert into more
applications and then people joining
let's take a look at the competitors so
when I hop over here
I look at Vistage in HOF st. like way
more keywords way bigger website dr 75
out of a hundred way more significant
you can see even here the number of
sheer number of keywords and the volume
of what they're ranking for is
significant is going to be extremely
difficult to outrank Vistage if we were
to compete head-to-head looking at top
pages we can see like this is a lot of
this is about you know CEO executive
coaching things like that so I'm not
super concerned I understand how they're
related over here entrepreneurs
organization again extremely
authoritative website tons of keywords
you know almost 4,000 referring domains
this is a you know three and a half
thousand referring domains continued
success looks like they got hit hurt a
little bit by the update on some
secondary keywords but overall just
pretty steady success much bigger much
more popular website in terms of search
than mastermind Jam looking in here for
a little bit of overlap I don't see a
lot about mastermind one of the things I
love about this is I can't about HRF
says I can type in keywords here and
just kind of filter down by that and see
so it doesn't look like anything super
significant if I go to organic keywords
I want to look for all of them let's
type in mastermind again and I just want
to see if there's any overlap so I'm
after my networking group things like
that but we're in position
we're in pages 8 through 10 and 11 here
so not super I don't feel like there's a
ton of overlap with the core of
mastermind Jam
so next take a look at success Alliance
all right we're kind of getting a little
bit more in the realm so dr of 38 a
little bit more in the realm of where
mastermind jam is all right cool ups and
downs telling me that they might not be
pursuing SEO really actively just
because things keep falling off here and
there again like the major update in
august/september would probably hurt
them they dropped off quite a bit
that happens taking a look at their
keywords i want to take a look at you
know what is gonna over line it or
overlap with mastermind jam so just
simply putting mastermind in there we
can see that you know they're on the
first page there number four and this is
not their homepage that's ranking this
is a specific page what is a mastermind
group ranks for all of these and we'll
see when we happen to top pages this
will be reflected but they're on the
first page for mastermind there on the
first page for mastermind group so
there's a really strong piece of content
and what I'm curious about here with
this what is a mastermind
it looks like a choice only has seven
links to that blog article so what this
tells me is that if over here if
mastermind Jam were to have a similar D
are similar Authority there are twenty
this website success Alliance is a
thirty eight and then only seven
referring domains we would be playing in
this realm as well being really
successful really ranking highly for
mastermind so it gives me a lot of
opportunity then finally looking over
here at kickass masterminds actually
below where master my jam is but you can
see there they kind of have a steady
rise of referring domains when I hop
over here into organic search steady
rise of keywords and things hop over
here and just take a look at their top
pages really quick before we jump back
into the slides so just looking here not
a lot of no referring domains on a lot
of their pages not a lot of their
content doesn't look like they're really
doing a lot with SEO if I were to just
judge by the URLs it doesn't look like
they're really paying a lot of attention
to it so hopping back over here you know
when we look at ranking factors if I
were to advise mastermind jam on some
things you know the ranking factors have
hard to break it down into four
quadrants it's really your website
I want Google wants a website that is
aged and super popular and soup
fast and then it's your content and then
it's your authority which is primarily
links and there's everything else that
I'm sure I'll get some hate in the
comments of at some point for 100 days
of SEO that I've said something that
people disagree about because we as SEO
is you know and this is in any industry
love to bicker with each other on
Twitter this is a framework that I kind
of laid out in the SEO for the rest of
us course but I want to kind of share
publicly too this is the I am SEO
framework so what I'm thinking about SEO
what am i doing I'm looking at their
intent I'm looking at the asset that I'm
gonna create I'm gonna look at the
medium of where I'm gonna create it and
then once I've done that once I've got
the I am SEO framework then I'm gonna
look at how to make it more relevant
hint that means links so let's talk
about for mastermind Jam like how how do
they win what do they need to do the
first thing is saying you really need to
start looking at search intent when
people are googling for these phrases
what do they really want right
yes mastermind but like what is
mastermind mastermind here is nothing if
I were to rank number one for mastermind
this is a game this is a Twitter account
for like wikipedia says it's a board
game ranking number one for mastermind
is not what i want what i really want to
start ranking number one for is
mastermind group or business mastermind
which they already do really well for
but mastermind group all of a sudden I
see the intent changes right
I can see Vistage is able to run ads
against this because they're really big
executive coaching network Wikipedia now
all sudden I see people also ask this
gives me a good idea to inform content
how do you structure mastermind group
how much does a mastermind group cost I
know this is something that master my
jam' really pushes back against because
although they charge you're paying for
the platform a lot of people label group
coaching as mastermind groups that's
false
and that's something it just goes on but
that's something you can rank for how
much does a mastermind group costs and
then really put that mastermind Jim
could put that flag in the ground of
like you know the simply the the
gathering of people doesn't cost
anything and shouldn't cost anything
what you're paying for when you pay for
a like a clickfunnels mastermind with
russell brunson like which I'm sure is
extremely valuable I love Russell but
what you're really paying for there is
group coaching not necessarily it's not
really
mastermind group mastermind groups meet
for the mutual benefit of each other and
then but they could rank for this and
then turn it right I know my friend Matt
Giovannucci has a pool care website that
does really really well in search called
swim University and he has articles
about chemicals that he doesn't advise
you use but like the articles are like
the truth about that right it'd be very
easy for a mastermind Jam to create a
piece of content around the truth about
how much should a mastermind cost and
things like that right how often to
mastermind groups meet what is
mastermind training all of these things
give us ideas and we can see kind of in
here that really people are just looking
to be one mastermind group they want to
be educated they want to know how to
create and run it how to start and run
it we can see this again what is a
mastermind group definition tutorials
seven reasons to join things like that
they even see some videos ranking so
Google really isn't sure do you want to
watch something do you want to read
something they're pretty sure you want
to read and they're pretty sure you just
want to go to Wikipedia now here's where
we start to get into a little bit of the
secret sauce really what you need to do
for SEO is start looking at levels of
awareness so at the top level people are
problem aware and there's a lot of words
on this slide so I'm not going to read
them all to you but being problem aware
these are people they know their
problems and if you want to help them
you have to show that you get their pain
so really mastermind jamming can have to
reverse-engineer why do people join
mastermind groups what is the issue
there that they're trying to deal with
and one of them I know personally is
that they want to overcome a plateau in
their business they've gotten to a level
of success they've heard about
mastermind groups but maybe they haven't
heard about mastermind groups yet
they've just they're their need to grow
their business they don't know what to
do
so five ways you can overcome a plateau
in your business great now let's take
them a level deeper now their solution
where there are aware solutions like
mastermind Jam exists but I have to show
them how your solution works so if I
have an article about like mastermind
groups help these five founders 10x
their businesses and I foot I feature
five founders from mastermind Jam who
have grown their business obviously
these numbers are arbitrary and made-up
but I sort of you know features success
stories of members then when their
product aware
great let's write an article case study
mastermind Jam feedback results in 50%
growth here over a year or something
like that you know now they're aware how
master my Jam is gonna solve their pain
how mastermind Jam has to prove that
they're the best option that they're a
better option than kick ass masterminds
or success alliance or Vistage or
whatever we have to prove that we are
the best option and then finally you
know once they know that the solution is
the best for them you just have to know
the deal like that's where we get into
the application that's the piece of
content that we push people to so in a
product aware article so in this case
study article the call-to-action is will
apply now in the solution aware article
we want to push them to a product to
where article not necessarily to apply
now and certainly five ways you can
overcome a plateau in your business I
don't want them to apply that's not
that's not where they're at so these map
to different results in search but they
also you need to think about it you're
building a content kind of business
funnel and this is something you're
gonna hear me talk about again here in a
second is the business side of things we
have to map SEO content to things that
actually do stuff for your business I
want to run really quickly how do how
would can do this
how would can figure these things out
obviously Kennett mastermind Jam has a
pretty intimate knowledge of this but
you know really how could you take it a
step further by doing topical research I
love my palm tree tropical topical
whatever you know Napoleon don't be
jealous I've been doing topical research
online all day right it's SEO jokes
they're so bad so looking on Quora
obviously is gonna give you some really
good copywriting some really good things
that you could use is something I just
pulled here a second ago what is a
mastermind are there online mastermind
groups all of a sudden you get these ant
these really good genuine pieces of
phrasing and copy from other people you
know I know that answer the public gets
a lot of hate and a lot of weird
feedback but it can be helpful for
generating ideas you can see on here
things that are helpful how mastermind
groups work why masterminds group why
mastermind groups work what our
mastermind groups here's what I think's
freakin fascinating is this Joker is
almost empty this is the main result
that they give you in it
you'd be chock full to the brim and
there's just not a ton of search volume
around mastermind groups but this is
something that mastermind jams should if
they want to be successful long term
really has to own they have to they have
to be the go-to resource for mastermind
groups it'll give them natural links as
people write about it they'll link back
to them it'll also get ten more
interviews on podcast as people want to
learn more about mastermind groups they
have to own this stuff in search
it is not generic it is very specific
one thing that I thought was cool that
answer the public did bring up is that
people are looking for mastermind groups
in every city around the country and
although mastermind Jam is an online
platform I do think there could be a
play here for them to have some sort of
information on their website as far as
mastermind groups in these cities like
if they could rank number one for
mastermind groups in Atlanta and you
know befriend a few of them it might be
easy to just say hey you guys have a
mastermind group in Atlanta here's a
list of like ten of them that are
meeting regularly hey dude what you all
would just want to use the platform
might make it easier for you and things
like that and then they naturally are
starting to bring in that traffic where
people like I'm looking for mastermind
groups in Atlanta and none of these seem
like a fit oh shoot why don't I just use
mastermind Jam so people who are
actively looking in their city they want
a mastermind group that's local maybe
they don't know that they can have
something maybe they don't know a
solution like mastermind Jam exists so
this is more problem where I know net
that I want a mastermind group maybe I
need and I would even argue solution
aware maybe I don't know that I need to
find one online other places to look
that are really cool I've got a couple
cool items on here that are really
helpful I love the three stars the last
one on here the three start Amazon
reviews I was just looking through
mastermind Journal they have no reviews
this is unhelpful the mastermind group
blueprint had one that was really
helpful said this is just general
information said just let members talk
about the business it says right here if
you're completely clues to never touch
the business book now you're trying to
create a paid mastermind which people
pay you this might be okay to send you
off in the right direction otherwise it
is a waste of time I was looking
for how to structure a mastermind group
boom this version was so pissed that
they bought this book and it did not
tell them how to structure a mastermind
group but they left a one-star review
that really matters so it tells us like
structuring a mastermind group is
something people really want to learn
there may not be a ton of volume around
it but it is something people are
passionate about unless just mastermind
dinners
clearly I own this book so it's pretty
cool it's not a bad book but I do agree
with this there's more to talk about
what the author does than actually
showing how to do the dinners again
people want to know how to do and this
is not necessarily mastermind is kind of
use
oddly here but they want to know how to
do it they want to know how to do it
we're looking for and then when we're
checking these things out we're kind of
looking for these painful emotions right
I'm not gonna read the list to you but
we want to try to pull these out because
this tells us like really good content
these are things this is something I
learned from Amy Howe and Alex Hillman
as a part of the Hajis I'm gonna forget
the name of the program is part of the
30 by 500 program but even more
specifically as a part of sales Safari
so really looking for those doing that
pain deep dive looking at these things
you know I could click on these and see
like hey is this something as Monica
Morgan left other reviews has Moretz had
left other reviews is the only time they
were so pissed that they de left a
one-star review they've never reviewed
an Amazon a book on Amazon before this
can be extremely helpful this is also
really good the pain deep dive also
pairs extremely well with looking on
Quora and looking at responses in there
now here's what I think will be
extremely extremely helpful so when I
look at mastermind Jam and I look at the
blog there's good content there is this
is good content mastermind groups are
your secret weapon
what is a mastermind group great peer
driven business mastermind groups that
really is like hey here's what master my
Jam is it's a little bit different than
a guru led business mastermind group
which format is right for me helping
people and then look it's gonna put a
brilliant job ken you're pushing them to
the next level of awareness or at least
through this content and then 11 proven
questions to ask before joining a
mastermind group so what is your
definition
and just really making sure people are
getting in the mastermind groups for the
right reasons things like that you know
there's a kind of cheat sheet here that
they can unlock which is awesome next
steps they're gonna go into part three
got it which I already have opened here
in a new tab but avoiding the common
mistakes so you know what
now we're talking about screening new
members or screening people for a new
mass ranked group here's some great
questions to ask them I get to the
bottom another you know I get the the
cheat sheet join a mastermind group I
don't it's not I can't even click this
link here and I'm not trying to
criticize this actual blog post so
here's here's the thing I just want you
to ponder this what if what if we did
what H rested now this is a SAS company
right mastermind Jam is a SAS company do
you know if you're listening on the
podcast this is gonna be a little bit
arbitrary but do you see mastermind Jam
anywhere in this article any of these
three articles do you see a single
screenshot of mastermind jam no I don't
see anything now I was just talking to
literally a couple minutes ago I was
talking to Tim solo who's a head of
marketing at HR F's and the analogy he
and I landed on was your content if
you're a SAS company your content should
be your demo and the reason HR FS and
this is not true for you know this
doesn't necessarily work for everybody
but ATF's never interrupts their demo
they don't interrupt their content you
are here I can open let's just here
let's be totally arbitrary so open the
top three and new tabs and let's see how
well they demo their product so this is
a beginner's guide to small business SEO
so I already see the first image is
literally of their product I'm going
through before we get started cool
teaching about search console things
like that logical website structures
with some examples that's really helpful
boom and as I keep going down now again
into their site audit tools some pro
tips of you
their tool it's really like hey here's
how you do it and here's how our tool
makes this super easy I don't see any of
that in the mastermind Jam content
there's no like here's what to do here's
how our tool makes it easy right when I
look at the next article for each rafts
what do you think I'm gonna find as I
scroll down I'm sure that at some point
we're gonna get into like hey here's
here's how to do all this stuff here's
some really interesting things but this
comes from a trash those are screenshots
of href oh look here we are again here's
how to do sure can I do this can I find
superfans can I do broken pages can I do
that without each refs sure there's
other ways to do it but this is super
easy because I can see it right here I
absolutely love it and then the last one
here again like I just have to like
bring this home that there this is
literally a data-driven guide in its
really long form but as I go through
this is they use their own tool to look
at anchor text and do this big study on
all this different anchor text so again
it's showing like if you want to know
about these things href is the tool to
use and I think this is the slam dunk
for mastermind Jam is just start
treating your content like a demo look
through the keywords and look do a
little bit of keyword and topical
research like we talked about here use
href like not pulling punches like use h
refs do some keyword research look at
the keywords that kick-ass masterminds
has and like online mastermind group
cool let's look at this content let's
maybe consider how we can make better
content have a better take and more
voice and things like that awesome DIY
matching important matching factors your
homies they're not showing you their
thing either like what are they what
even is this no no do not ever show me
notifications you stop it um sorry
personal preference of how the internet
should work my point is here really
mastermind Jam would see a lot more
benefit other content and like let's be
honest like we we could definitely
let's be honest we could definitely
afford to build some links let's get
some deep links in this piece and let's
get some links pointing at this content
let's get it ranking for some stuff and
then when we're in here let's let's
really convert by making sure that these
are mapped to a level of awareness and
that they then push people either into a
deeper level of awareness or ready to
convert because we've shown them master
my jam I cannot see mass for my jam in
any of these articles and all of a
sudden I'm like I don't I don't know I'm
supposed to apply for a thing I've never
seen these content I believe would be a
lot stronger if they were demos so I
hope this has been extremely helpful I
hope that these workshop Wednesdays are
great I'm gonna continue doing these
every single Wednesday for the next 5
months so I hope they're helpful do me a
favor leave a comment below if you're
watching on YouTube leave a comment
below what do you want to what type of
business do you want to see more of in
workshop Wednesday you want to see more
sass businesses do you want to see
service businesses like copywriters and
photographers you know what a Philly 8
website like what do you what type of
website do you want to see me do more
workshops on leave it a comment below
and if you're listening on the podcast
love you just tweet me that apron and
hover it on Twitter at the Brenden
offered on instagram whichever you
prefer
let me know what do you want to see more
of on workshop Wednesday I've been
Brendon Hufford don't forget to work
hard be nice people and don't get too
lost trying to create something that
matters